Filter external repos (#396)
IAMconsortium/nomenclature: docs/user_guide/config.rst

    variable:
      repositories:
        - name: common-definitions
        - name: legacy-definitions
  mappings:
    repository:
      name: common-definitions

The value in *definitions.region.repository* can be a list or a single value, needs to
contain the ``name`` keyword and reference the repository in the *repositories* section.

For model mappings the process is analogous using *mappings.repository*.

Filter code lists imported from external repositories
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since importing the entirety of, for example, common-definitions is too much for most
projects, the list can be filtered using ``include`` and ``exclude`` keywords. Under
these keywords, lists of filters can be given that will be applied to the code list from
the given repository.

The filtering can be done by any attribute:

.. code:: yaml

  repositories:
    common-definitions:
      url: https://github.com/IAMconsortium/common-definitions.git/
  definitions:
    variable:
      repository:
        name: common-definitions
        include:
          - name: [Primary Energy*, Final Energy*]
          - name: "Population*"
            tier: 1
        exclude:

>           - name: "Final Energy|*|*"

Reviewer: This is a misleading example - it seems to show only level-2 exclusion but it excludes all variables at level 2 or below. Also, pyam excludes the filter-String from the level-calculation. Better to use **pyam.utils.pattern_match** for consistency with pyam-filtering and support the level-argument explicitly.
```suggestion
          - name: "Final Energy|*"
             level: "1+"
```

>           - name: "Final Energy|*|*"

Author: Seems that this is subjective then. For me it was totally clear that this excludes anything level 2 and beyond.
I can see your point though about this being ambiguous

>           - name: "Final Energy|*|*"

Author: I'll change the filtering logic to mirror that of pyam. This way we'll get a consistent API across both packages.

>           - name: "Final Energy|*|*"

Reviewer: FYI, I added a new filter-argument *depth* in pyam (see https://github.com/IAMconsortium/pyam/pull/886), because *level* changes behavior depending on the *variable*. string, so can lead to confusion.

I suggest to use *depth* in any examples.

>           - name: "Final Energy|*|*"

Author: Thanks for the info. After looking at the PR for a couple of minutes and consulting the pyam documentation I think I understand the difference between the two. Happy to use depth for this then.

If I understand correctly, using _depth_ is the preferred option. If so I'd suggest to update the pyam tutorials (https://pyam-iamc.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/pyam_first_steps.html#Filtering-by-variables-and-levels) to use _depth_.
In addition, I'd also suggest removing level as an argument since it can lead to confusion to have two very similar but subtly different options. Especially without an example to illustrate the difference (at least I didn't find an example in the docs).

>           - name: "Final Energy|*|*"

Author: Updated the example to use _depth_

  mappings:
    repository: common-definitions

The value in *definitions.region.repository* can be a list or a single value.

For model mappings the process is analogous using *mappings.repository*.

Filter code lists imported from external repositories
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since importing the entirety of, for example, common-definitions is too much for most
projects, the list can be filtered using ``include`` and ``exclude`` keywords. Under
these keywords, lists of filters can be given that will be applied to the code list from
the given repository.

The filtering can be done by any attribute:

.. code:: yaml

  repositories:
    common-definitions:
      url: https://github.com/IAMconsortium/common-definitions.git/
  definitions:
    variable:
      repository:
        name: common-definitions
        include:
          - name: [Primary Energy*, Final Energy*]
          - name: "Population*"
            tier: 1
        exclude:
          - name: "Final Energy|Industry*"
            depth: 2

> If a filter is being used for repositories, the *name* keyword **must be used**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a filter is being used for repositories, the *name* attribute **must be used**
for the repository.
```
